Sheriff Deputy Rick Grimes is shot in a fight against criminals. He goes into a coma for some period of time. When he wakes up, something is clearly amiss. Cue zombie apocalypse.  Rick discovers his wife and children are missing, so naturally his course of action turns to finding them. Before leaving town, he meets fellow survivor Morgan Jones, and his son Duane, who will obviously become important at some point later. Rick leaves them with a police radio, so they can possibly stay in touch/ share intel. So now Rick is off to Atlanta. The CDC is rumored to have set up an outpost there, so Rick thinks its the obvious place to look for his family. Rick arrives into Atlanta only to find it entirely over run by “walkers”, the shows word for zombies. Rick finds himself up shit creek (to put it nicely), and it appears his story may be over rapidly. However Glenn Rhee, a very important character, saves him. Glenn takes Rick back to his group, who were looking for supplies for a larger group outside of town. Walkers are infiltrating the stronghold Glenn’s group has set up, so they have to bounce, but before they do Rick handcuffs Merle Dixon, an incredibly racist, all around prick, to the roof. This was a judgment call on Rick’s part, and naturally this isn’t the last its heard of. Glenn takes Rick and his crew take Rick back to their group outside of town, and oh, what do you know, Rick’s wife Lori and son Carl are with them. What a neat turn of events. However, Shane, Rick’s former police partner, is with them, and he and Lori are lovers. What a not so neat turn of events. Rick is a good (and kind of stupid) guy, so he wants to go back to Atlanta to get a bag of weapons left there, and also to save Merle. When they get there, they find Merle has sawed off his own hand, and escaped by himself. Which says a lot for what kind of crazy he is. When they get back to camp, Rick and the boys find it is being overrun by walkers. A girl named Andrea (who turns into a major character) loses her sister Amy (who clearly doesn’t), and Jim (a fairly unimportant character). Rick declares this reason enough to go try his initial idea, the CDC, cause clearly Jim needs help there, and CLEARLY no one would have thought of that during Rick’s undisclosed amount of time in a coma. On the way there Jim dies of the infection. However the convoy moves on. When they get there, they find Dr. Edwin Jenner. All the other staff has either fled, or killed themselves. As it turns out, Jenner is a little crazy too. Fighting a seemingly incurable disease while watching colleagues die must take a toll. Anyway, due to a CDC failsafe designed to inhibit the spread of dangerous diseases in case of an emergency, the whole facility is about to blow up, and Jenner intends to take them all with him. The reasoning given is sort of just because, why wouldn’t he. Andrea and Jacqui, members of the group who weren’t all too important until now, decide to stay and die. However Dale, a soon to be important member of the group, convinces Andrea to keep living. Rick and the “Don’t want to die yet” crew escape through a window they knock out, and turn to watch as the center blows up. But now they are in the dangerous outside, low on supplies, and with no real idea where to go. Cue end of season 1. 
