Season 3 starts 8 and a half months after they escaped the farm, Lori being in the final days of her pregnancy. They discover a deserted prison and, while clearing it of walkers, Hershel is bitten by his leg. The group rushes him to the cafeteria, where Rick is forced to amputate his leg. All those noises attract five prison survivors trapped in the cafeteria. Rick brings them up to date upon zombie apocalypse and the idea of control and power bring tension between their leader, Tomas, and Rick. When the tension outbursts get to them, most of the prisoners are killed, except for Axel and Oscar. Later on, a walker causes problems. T-Dog sacrifices himself for Carol and Maggie is forced to perform a C-section on Lori, who goes into labor. She dies and Carl is obligated to shoot her. They name the baby Judith.sets the action 8 and a half months after they escaped the farm, Lori being in the final days of her pregnancy. They discover a deserted prison and, while clearing it of walkers, Hershel is bitten by his leg. The group rushes him to the cafeteria, where Rick is forced to amputate his leg. All those noises attract five prison survivors trapped in the cafeteria. Rick brings them up to date upon zombie apocalypse and the idea of control and power bring tension between their leader, Tomas, and Rick. When the tension outbursts get to them, most of the prisoners are killed, except for Axel and Oscar. Later on, a walker causes problems. T-Dog sacrifices himself for Carol and Maggie is forced to perform a C-section on Lori, who goes into labor. She dies and Carl is obligated to shoot her. They name the baby Judith. The stranger that found Andrea in the woods proved to be also a woman named Michonne. Both of them are captured and transported to Woodbury, a fenced part of the town which holds 73 people. There, they find out that Merle, Daryl’s older brother is part of the squad. While Michonne is growing more suspicious about the Governor and their inward activities, Andrea is more than pleased with her new home and refuses to leave. So Michonne departs alone and she is soon hunted by Merle and two other blocks. She manages to escape them by killing two out of three, but she is wounded. In revenge, Merle captures Maggie and Glenn while they were out scavenging. Michonne witness that and quickly informs Rick and the others about that. Their rescue mission ends in Oscar being killed and Daryl captured. The Governor accuses Merle of disloyalty. Rick and Maggie come back to save them and in the aftermath, Daryl decides to go with Merle hence Rick doesn’t allow him in the group. Back at the prison, Carl encounters other survivors, but they are quickly banished by Rick. Welcoming Tyreese and Sasha in Woodbury, the Governor sets an ambush on the prison, Axel loosing his life in the attack. Then, Rick decides to take a trip to Grimes’ hometown in search of weapons. There, they stumble upon Morgan and learn that Duane was killed by his reanimated mother. Morgan chooses to stay behind. Andrea arranges a meeting between Rick and the Governor. The Governor will declare amnesty if Michonne is handed over. When Andrea discovers the true intention of that man, she tries to flee, but she is captured. Merle hears the deal and kidnaps Michonne, but he grows fond of her and let her go. In an attempt to foil the Governor’s plans, Merle is killed. Daryl finds him as a zombie and is forced to kill him. Milton, the Governor advisor is stabbed by his superior and let to reanimate in the same room with Andrea. The Governor plans an attack on the prison, but Rick is prepared. In a tantrum, the Governor kills most of his soldiers. Rick wants payback and they head back to Woodbury. On their way they find Karen, the only survivor, who convinces Tyreese and Sasha to let them in. They find Andrea, who killed the zombified Milton, but she got injured. She commits suicide. The season ends with the journey back to the prison with all Woodbury’s survivors. - due to the length and complexity of this season, this write up has been taken from    
\”http://newtvshows.net/walking-dead-season-3-recap-summary”\
