A nameless first person Narrator opens the movie with a gun being held in his mouth by a man named Tyler Durden. However he decides that its best if the story starts from the beginning. The narrator explains that he is an insomniac. He is seen working his dead end, boring, desk job, and having many a sleepless night. Frustrated and in pain, he decides to attempt to get sleeping medication from the doctor. The doctor declines, and jokes to him that if he wants to see real pain he should go to the testicular cancer survivor support group. 
Whether the doctor was kidding or not, the narrator decides to actually go. There, “something beautiful happens”. The narrator lets go, and cries along with the survivors. That night, he sleeps like a baby. He becomes addicted to these support groups, and goes to the every night. The release he feels there relieves his insomnia. However, he notices a woman, Marla Singer, who is also an imposter on these groups. Her presence ruins the groups for him. He finally confronts her, and they agree to split up the groups. 
After this scene, we find the narrator on a plane next to an interesting character, that we recognize as Tyler Durden. The duo get to talking, and it becomes clear the Tyler has an unorthodox way of thinking, to say the least. He leaves his seat, and the movie cuts to the airport. The narrator has lost his luggage, due to concern that it was a bomb. Exasperated, he sees Tyler speeding off in a flashy red sports car. When the narrator arrives at his apartment, he finds that it has exploded. Having no where else to turn, the narrator calls Tyler and asks him to go to the bar with him. 
While drinking and chatting, Tyler reveals a central idea of his, and the movie as a whole. “The things you own, end up owning you.” With this mantra the narrator is able to let go of all the losses he suffered that day, noting that it is “just stuff”. After much more drinking, the narrator finally sums up the courage to ask Tyler to crash at his place. Tyler agrees, but first wants the narrator to do something crazy for him. He asks the narrator to hit him. They fight, and go back to Tyler’s house. It is a decrepit old house in an abandoned area. The two hit it off, and spend many nights drinking and fighting each other. Soon other bar goers want to fight as well. Thus begins fight club.
Fight club quickly becomes the only important thing to both the narrator and Tyler. It moves to the bars basement, and grows daily. One evening Marla Singer calls the narrator, after having apparently attempted suicide. The narrator dismisses her, but Tyler does not. The two grow a very dysfunctional relationship, to the narrators disdain. Being right in the middle of their shenanigans, the narrator is told by Tyler to never bring him up to Marla. The narrator agrees, visibly frustrated with the situation. 
Soon enough, it becomes fairly clear that Fight Club is evolving. The narrator fabricates an assault on him, by his manager, and is granted full pay for working at home. He is now capable to fully focus on Fight Club all the time. In the mean time, Tyler has begun constructing living quarters in the house. The narrator is unaware of what this is for, until “recruits” start appearing at the house. The recruits are for what Tyler has titled “Project Mayhem”., the evolution of Fight Club. 
Tyler has essentially created an army, who terrorize the city with various pranks and crimes. All of the crimes are in line with Tyler’s anti-materialistic viewpoints that we were introduced to early in the film. The narrator and Tyler have a sort of falling out. Tyler tells the narrator to forget everything he knows about Fight Club, and their relationship. After this Tyler disappears. 
The narrator sleuths through Tyler’s belongings, and finds that he has been using the narrator’s assets from work to fly all around the country. The narrator follows these bread crumbs, and finds other, highly disciplined cells of Project Mayhem all around the country. None will reveal any knowledge of Tyler’s where abouts, until one man reveals quite a bit more. He calls the narrator Tyler Durden. 
The movie cuts to the narrator waking in his hotel room, clearly dazed and confused, to find Tyler waiting for him. He asks why people think he is Tyler. Tyler says he thinks the narrator knows why. As a montage of the narrator doing everything he always thought he saw Tyler doing flashes across the screen, he says “because I am you”. “Bingo”.
The narrator returns home and attempts to fully grasp the plan Tyler has for project mayhem. It turns out he has planned to blow up the buildings for every major credit card company in the city. There are many of these. He contacts Marla Singer, as he is now sure that in his “Tyler” state, he ordered her to be taken care of because she knew too much. He makes sure she flees the city. Obviously she is confused, as the narrator seems to have no recollection of their relationship. 
After he knows Marla is safe, the narrator attempts to turn himself in, and stop the whole terrorist plot. However, he soon learns of the extent that Project Mayhem has spread. The officers he turns himself into are part of it, and are going to go through with his orders to “take the balls” of anyone who tried to ruin the plot. The narrator fights back however, and escapes the station. He runs to the nearest targeted building, and attempts to defuse the bombs in them himself. However, his imaginary friend Tyler returns, and knocks him out. 
The narrator wakes to the scene the movie opened with, on the top floor of a building surrounded by the ones we now know to be filled with bombs. He and Tyler discuss how the narrator created Tyler, and why he needs him. The narrator seems to have changed his mind on what kind of things he subconsciously wants however. Unlike when he created Tyler, he no longer wants to blow up these building or cause mayhem. In a moment of clarity, he realizes that Tyler can’t be holding a gun or threatening him, because he does not actually exist. The gun appears in the narrator's hand. He shoots himself in the head in an attempt to kill both himself and Tyler. 
Tyler falls to the ground, dead. The narrator, however, is still alive after botching the suicide attempt. He is badly injured though. At this point Marla is dragged into the room by all of the Project Mayhem team, who have arrived to watch the fireworks. The narrator (who let’s not forget they think is Tyler) orders them to leave her alone, and go wait for him downstairs. He explains to Marla that he has been terrible to her, and that everything is going to be fine now. He takes her hands and says “You met me at a very strange time in my life”, as they turn to find that the entire block of buildings has started to explode.
