In Frozen, Elsa, the princess of Arendelle has the magic ability to create snow and ice at will. One night she is playing with her younger sister, Anna, when she accidentally strikes her in the head with a beam of this magic. Their parents take the injured Anna to a troll family, where a troll shaman removes the harmful effects of the magic. To do this though, he must also replace all memories of Anna\’\s which involve Elsa\’\s magic. Upon return, the King and Queen isolate Elsa, in an attempt to help her control her powers. As a result, Elsa spends most of her time alone, afraid that she will hurt her sister. The King and Queen have to go on a journey by boat, so naturally \(this being a Disney movie)\ their boat crashes and they die. When Elsa comes of age she must be coronated as the Queen of Arendelle. This means that for the first time since Anna\’\s accident, the Kingdom will be open to guests. Anna is thrilled by this. Elsa is not. Important guests who arrive are thhe Duke of Wessilton, and Prince Hans of the Southern Isles. Despite Elsa\’\s anxiety, the cermony goes well, that is until the after party. At the after party Hans and Anna spontaneously fall in love. Hans proposes to Anna, who accepts. They approach Elsa for her blessing. Since, Elsa is a sane person, she refuses to give her blessing, citing the fact that they can\’\t be in love because they just met. This bother Anna and the two begin to argue. At the arguments pique, Elsa accidentally uses her magic. Naturally everyone freaks out, so Elsa runs off up a nearby mountain. Anna chases after her, leaving Hans in charge. It is soon discovered that, in her panic, Elsa has set Arendelle into a perpetual winter. Anna, who is obviously poorly equipped for her journey, stop at a local trade shop to get supplies. There she meets an ice dealer, Kristoff, and his reindeer, Sven. The two agree to take her up the mountain, in an attempt to end the eternal winter. After much witty banter and relationship growing, the two arrive. There they meet a snowman named Olaf, who Elsa created. He tags along with them  as well. Anna and Elsa reunite, however Elsa is still concerned about hurting Anna. She tells her to just leave her be. The two argue once more, and Elsa accidentally strikes Anna with her magic once more. This time, however, it is in her heart. Anna, Sven, Olaf and Kristoff rush Anna to the same troll family as earlier, which just happens to be who raised Kristoff. The shaman tells the three that the only way to save a \“frozen heart”\ is an act of true love. The group deduce that Anna must have her first kiss with Hans, and head off back towards the kingdom. Meanwhile, Hans and the duke of Wessilton have organized a rescue party for Anna, who has been gone too long. The duke has malintent though. He wants to exploit Arendelle as a trade partner, and doesn\’\t care about the kingdom at all. He tells the guards he sends on the mission to kill Elsa. When the rescue arrives, Hans stops the duke’s men from killing Elsa and takes her back to Arendelle as a prisoner. Anna arrives at the castle just in time, and her and Hans are left in peace for their moment. Their moment, however, is Hans revealing to Anna that he never loved her at all, and that he was ALSO just exploiting Arendelle. He had too many older brothers in the Southern Isles, to ever be king. Therefore his plan was to wed Anna, then kill both her and Elsa secretly and take control. Hans does not kiss her, and leaves her to die. He tells all those waiting that Anna has died, and that Elsa killed her. He declares Elsa must be put to death. Olaf finds Anna on her last leg, and they decide that she needs to actually get her true love\’\s first kiss from Kristoff. They rush out on the frozen lake outside the castle to find him. Meanwhile, Elsa has broken out of prison, and is also running across the frozen lake, with Hans in pursuit. Hans catches up to Elsa, and tells her she killed her sister. Elsa is devastated, and does not attempt to stop Hans from killing her. Anna however, while attempting to meet up with Kristoff, sees Hans about to kill Elsa a short distance away. She throws herself in front of Elsa as Hans swings his sword. Anna freezes totally at that exact moment, and the sword breaks. Hans is thrown back. Elsa sobs on her now dead sister while a devastated Kristoff, Sven and Olaf look on. But Anna sacrificing herself for her sister was an act of true love. She slowly unfreezes, as her heart has been thawed by sisterly love. Hans and the duke of Wessilton are exiled from Arendelle, and returned to their countries of origin for punishment. Anna lives happily ever after, dating Kristoff, and with a healthy relationship to her sister Elsa.
