Shaun, the movie’s protagonist, is in a dead end job in a local electronics shop. He lives with his best friend Ed, and another man named Pete. Pete hates Ed. Naturally this means he and Shaun often butt heads. Shaun’s girlfriend, Liz, desires more from the couple’s social life, and relationship as a whole. Liz’s friends, David and Dianne, don’t seem to care too much for Shaun either, especially David. Furthermore, Shaun has a very tense relationship with his step father Phillip, but he loves and cares about his mother Barbara. Anyway, that as the setup, one day while returning from work, Shaun runs into an old friend Yvonne. The two chat briefly, before Yvonne asks Shaun what he is doing for Liz today, as it's their anniversary. Naturally Shaun has forgotten this, so he scrambles to make a plan. Unfortunately, this goes poorly, and he ends up pitching the idea of going to the Winchester Pub to Liz. This goes over very badly, since this is where the couple, and really everyone they socialize with go literally all the time. Not much for romantic. This prompts Liz to break up with Shaun. Upset, Shaun and Ed go to the Winchester anyhow, and get very drunk. On the walk home they see a man acting very strangely. They assume he is just drunk, which is obviously not the case. When they arrive home Pete informs the duo that a crackhead bit him, and he feels terrible, so they should just shut up and go to bed. They do so. When they wake up, Shaun and Ed notice a girl acting strangely in their backyard. After messing about with her for a minute, it becomes apparent that she is in fact a zombie. Furthermore, the whole town seems to be suddenly in the midst of a zombie apocalypse. They go inside to find that Pete is also a zombie, and determine that they need to leave. Where do they decide to go? Why, the Winchester of course. The two decide to go pick up Shaun’s mom. When they arrive in the car they stole from Pete, Phillip has been bitten, and is clearly slowly dying. They take Phillip’s car and make their way to Liz’s apartment, to retrieve her and her friends. Reluctantly they bring Phillip along, because Barbara insists. They retrieve Liz, Dianne and Davis from Liz’s and continue on with their journey. Unfortunately Phillip has died and subsequently zombified in their car. So they must continue on foot. On the way the run into Yvonne, and her group of survivors. They inform her they are going to the Pub, to which she seems justifiably surprised. Wishing eachother luck, the groups part. Shaun and company make it to the over run Pub by pretending to act like zombies, and simply walking through the streets. Shaun distracts the zombies, and the others sneak inside. A short time later, after David has spent most of the time complaining about Shaun’s idea, Shaun returns, clearly successful. All seems successful. The zombies do not know where they are, and things seem decently safe. However, always the fuck up, Ed turns on a pinball machine which makes a terribly loud noise and gives away their position to the zombies. The bar is slowly overrun, and in the process, David \(who it is revealed loves Liz)\, Dianne, and Barbara are all killed. Shaun, Liz, and an injured Ed make it to the basement. Ed and Shaun have a heartfelt moment, as he will clearly have to be left behind in the now burning bar. After much sadness, Liz and Shaun climb a ladder from the basement, to the main street outside. It appears they don’t have too much time left themselves, when Yvonne and an army convoy show up. Yvonne came back to find them once she had been rescued by the Army. The movie fades and several months pass. When it fades back in, Liz and Shaun are happily dating, and everyone is trying to get their lives back to normally after the incredibly strange events. Shaun pops out to the garden shed when he has a moment, and plays video games with Ed, who has been zombified, but acts essentially exactly the same. 
