Main:
You are playing as the silent protagonist Jack. The game opens with Jack on a plane flying over the Atlantic in the year 1960. Naturally the plane crashes, and Jack finds himself in the middle of the Atlantic, the only survivor of the crash. ‘Coincidentally” enough, a towering lighthouse is on a small platform in front of Jack. Upon entering, Jack is met with a daunting statue of a man named Andrew Ryan. A banner across the statute reads “No Gods or Kings, Only Man”. Andrew Ryan is the creator of Rapture, and under water city that Jack now finds himself in. 

After riding a bathysphere to the entrance of the city, it becomes obvious that this is not the kind of place Jack should be wandering around in. It is populated by drugged up psychos, called splicers, who will kill pretty much anyone on sight. Their drug of choice is called ADAM. ADAM is the substance that runs Rapture. It alters one's genetic code, allowing them to look different, gain special abilities etc. Jack finds a service radio in the Bathysphere, which a man named Atlas communicates to him through. Atlas informs Jack that Andrew Ryan is a monster who must be stopped. Ryan took Atlas’s family, and Atlas needs Jack to help him get them back. Naturally he will help Jack escape this condemned city if he helps him. To remain strong, Jack must too harvest ADAM, in order to be able to fight through the city. ADAM is gained by either saving small mutated girls called “Little Sisters”, or killing them. Dr. Tenenbaum, the genius who invented these girls pleads with Jack to save them instead of harvesting them, as they are just regular little girls whose lives she ruined. Now she hopes for redemption by saving them. That choice is left up to the player, and alters how the ending plays out. Jack and Atlas nearly meet at the submarine that Atlas’s family is hiding in, however at the last second Ryan has the area destroyed, killing Atlas’s family, and keeping Jack and Atlas separated. Enraged, Atlas asks Jack to kill Andrew Ryan. 

After ridiculous amounts of battling through Ryan’s army of splicers, Jack finally makes it to Ryan’s office, where he finds him casually putting a golf ball. Ryan reveals to Jack that he is in fact his illegitimate son. He was born in Rapture only 4 years prior, and his embryo had been purchased by Ryan’s main rival and enemy, Frank Fontaine. Frank Fontaine had been vying to overthrow Ryan for some time, and their clashing had led to the civil war and ultimate fall of Rapture. Fontaine altered Jack’s memory, and genetically modified him to have a trigger phrase of “Would you kindly”. If an order was given to Jack that either began or ended with this phrase, he would obey it no matter what. Fontaine sent Jack to the surface, and ordered him to hijack the plane. Jack is only back in Rapture because he is Frank Fontaine’s puppet. Ryan drives this point home, when he says to Jack: “Would you kindly bash my head in with this golf club”. The player watches in horror as this gruesome act plays out before them. At this point Frank Fontaine reveals himself to be Jack’s supposed ally Atlas. The player realizes at this point that everything in the game prior has happened because they were under the control of Fontaine who has used the phrase in literally all of their talks. 

Dr Tenenbaum helps Jack escape the office and disables the trigger phrase from his brain. Jack corners Frank Fontaine who, in a moment of desperation takes vast amounts of ADAM, turning himself into an incredibly powerful foe. However with the help of Tenenbaum’s little sisters, Jack subdues him, and ultimately kills him. The ending varies based on how the player chose to interact with the Little Sisters. If he saved these little girls lives, he is seen riding back to the surface, raising the girls with care, and living out a long and happy life as their caretaker. If he kills them for their ADAM, he then is seen killing all of the Little Sister’s who helped him defeat Fontaine. Jack is seen with a gang of splicers taking over a submarine passing through the plane’s wreckage, and it is ultimately implied that due to his actions Rapture’s insanity has now found a way to reach the outer world.
