Fallout 3 features the player as the protagonist, born in a vault in post apocalyptic America. A nuclear war 200 years prior with China has left the USA pretty much totally decimated. Life exists outside the vault, but the survivors are all irradiated, and live a hard life. In the vault however, things are relatively ok. Or they appear to be. The player’s father is a doctor, who one day decides to leave the vault, which is of course not ok. The overseer of the vault, a man who is a tad mad with power, seeks out the player after his father escapes. The player eludes him however, and escapes the vault. The Vault is located in Washington DC, an area which got targeted heavily during the war. And it shows. The player goes on a search for his father, who obviously needs a good reason to have abandoned him. The player discovers that his father is a scientist who is working on \”Project Purity”\, which is a large water purifier. If completed, clean water would come to the wasteland. Naturally this would be huge for the survivors. The Player discovers his father is captive in another vault, Vault 108. At 108 the player finds that the overseer in this vault has trapped its inhabitants in a simulation, where he toys with them for his own amusement. The player mercy kills the inhabitants, and rescues his father. Once out, player and father head to project purity. The player helps his father fix up the purifier, and things look like they are going well. However, the Enclave shows up. The Enclave is a faction that claims to be remnants of the old US government. They do not want the purifier to work. They want the irradiated survivors to die off, so that the remaining humanity in the area are pure. Anyway, they show up and try to take over the purifier. The player’s father martyrs himself to stop them from taking control of the purifier. In doing so however, he also sets back the project because it is too irradiated to function. To solve this the player must go to another vault, Vault 87, to get a tool that can fix this problem. Once the character recovers the tool however, the Enclave capture him and take them to their headquarters, Raven Rock. The President, and leader of the enclave, turns out to be a slightly crazy robot. He requests a meeting with the player. In this meeting, depending on how the player has played the game, there are several options to destroy the president. Regardless, one would most likely deactivate the president here. No matter what, the player escapes Raven Rock. He meets back up with \“The Brotherhood of Steel”\, a freedom fighting faction with the same aim as the player character \(aka fixing the purifier)\. As a unit, the player and the brotherhood of steel fight their way to the purifier, reclaiming it from the Enclave. However, to use the tool and fix the purifier, someone must enter the incredibly irradiated chamber, and activate the purifier. The player elects to do that, and like his father, sacrifices himself for the greater good. 
